
## Contents

### **Contents**
- [Description](#Introduction)
- [Features](#Preview)
- [Demo](#Demo)
- [Run Locally](#Run)
- [Metrics and Models Used](#Accuracy-measures)
- [Dataset Used](#Dataset-used)
- [Documentation](#Documentation)
- [References](#References)

# EcoHack

EcoHack is an innovative and versatile app designed to promote environmental awareness and sustainability. It provides a range of features and functionalities to monitor, analyze, and manage environmental parameters, empowering users to make informed decisions and take meaningful actions to protect our planet.


## Features

Features
Real-time Air Quality Forecasting: 
EcoHack utilizes state-of-the-art algorithms and sensor data to provide real-time air quality forecasting. It helps users stay updated on the current and predicted air quality levels in their surroundings, empowering them to take necessary precautions and make informed decisions.

Real-time Weather Forecasting with Voice Support:
The system incorporates real-time weather forecasting capabilities,along with visualizations allowing users to access accurate and up-to-date weather information. Additionally, EcoHack provides voice support, enabling users to listen to the forecast.

Biodiversity Detection and Identification:
EcoHack employs advanced image recognition and machine learning techniques,using YOLOv5(You Only Look Once) to detect and identify various species, contributing to biodiversity monitoring efforts. Users can upload images animals and receive instant species identification, fostering a deeper understanding of local ecosystems.

Soil Type Identification:
EcoHack provides additional support for Identifying the Soil Type by uploading the Image of the Soil.Deep Learning Techniques and CNN(Convolutional Neural Networks) have been trained for the Identification.

Water Potability Management:
EcoHack facilitates water potability management by analyzing water quality parameters. It alerts the users if the level of Contamination is High and declares if the water is potable or not.

Water Quality Analysis Dashboard over the Years:
The system features a comprehensive dashboard that provides historical data analysis of water quality parameters over time. Users can explore trends, patterns, and changes in water quality, facilitating long-term monitoring, research, and informed decision-making related to water resource management.
## Demo

https://github.com/10isha/EcoHack/assets/96648129/c4591742-17d2-4648-804c-98b67f6ba8a2

https://github.com/10isha/EcoHack/assets/96648129/658cc88d-529e-4a4f-bc9c-59b56e86fdc3

https://github.com/10isha/EcoHack/assets/96648129/09af065d-4e1e-4e92-bfbf-d0c3a3289413


## Run Locally

Clone the project

```bash
 git clone https://github.com/10isha/EcoHack.git
```
Install dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Start the server

```bash
 streamlit run Home.py
```


## Deployment

You can access the deployed project via this link -

https://ecohack-uumd9xugiw9.streamlit.app/


## Models

1)Biodiversity Detection and Classification- YOLOv5 (You Only Look Once)
Yolo model: You Only Look Once (YOLO) family of detection frameworks aim to build a real time object detector, which what they lack in small differences of accuracy when compared to the two stage detectors, are able to provide faster inferences.It predicts over limited bounding boxes generated by splitting image into a grid of cells, with each cell being responsible for classification and generation of bounding boxes, which are then consolidated by NMS.
Yolov5 Model weights pretrained for animal detection were used for this process,classifiying animals into 13 categories - Tiger,Giraffe,Bear,Lion,Elephant,Deer,Wolf,Bull,Monkey,Leopord,Rhinoceros,Hippo,Cattle

2)Soil Detection- 
Custom Convolutional Networks Trained manually to detect Soil into 5 types - Black Soil,Peat Soil,Cinder Soil,Yellow Soil,Laterite Soil was used.

3)Air Quality prediction-
An App

## Documentation

[Documentation](https://linktodocumentation)


## Appendix

Datasets Used-

API's Used-

